Add guide to Exact MAU Tables (#258)
mozilla/firefox-data-docs: src/datasets/bigquery/exact_mau/reference.md

# Exact MAU Data

## Introduction

> This article introduces the usage of and methodology behing the "exact MAU"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article introduces the usage of and methodology behind the "exact MAU"
```

across Mozilla for MAU analysis going forward.

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->

# Conceptual Model

## Metric

A metric is anything want to (and can) measure.  In order for a metric to be 
calculated, a _usage criterion_ and a _slice_ must be specified. The metric 
will produce a single value per day, summarizing data:

- for one day or more days (i.e. the metric value for a particular day may depend on data from other days as well)
- for all users (whatever notion of user makes sense for the data, generally profiles) in a particular sub-population
- where the sub-population will include users that meet the specified usage criteria and are in the specified slice.

A simple _usage criterion_ is "All Desktop Activity", which includes all Firefox Desktop users that we have any data (telemetry ping) for on the day in question.  The simplest slice is "All" which places no restrictions on the sub-population.

For example, the metric "Daily Active Users (DAU)" with usage criteria "All Desktop Activity" and slice "All" involves summarizing data on all users of Firefox Desktop over a single day.

## Usage Criteria

> A _usage criterion_ is any product or feature for which we wish to calculate

Reviewer: This definition seems really vague. If _slice_ maps to `GROUP BY` does _usage criteria_ map to `WHERE`? Would calling this a condition make sense?

Author: cc @jmccrosky as this terminology is his work. I'm going to maintain "usage criterion" for the time being to match Jesse's smoot work.

metrics.  It may be something simple like "All Desktop Activity" (as above) or, 
similarly, "All Mobile Activity".  It may also be something more specific like

> "Desktop 5 URI Active" corresponding to calculation of 

Reviewer: `"All Mobile Activity"` and `"All Desktop Activity"` sound like natural language, but this one doesn't. How about this?
```suggestion
"Desktop Total Daily URI >= 5" corresponding to calculation of 
```

Reviewer: Or to be consistent with the column naming:
```suggestion
"Desktop Visited 5 URI" corresponding to calculation of 
```

Reviewer: Or to use the terminology in active_dau.md
```suggestion
"Active Users Desktop Activity" corresponding to calculation of 
```

```sql
SELECT
    submission_date,
    SUM(mau) AS mau
FROM
    `moz-fx-data-derived-datasets.telemetry.firefox_desktop_exact_mau28_by_dimensions_v1`
GROUP BY
    submission_date
ORDER BY
    submission_date
```

Now, let's refine our slice to "Country = US; Campaign = whatsnew"
via a `WHERE` clause:

```sql
SELECT
    submission_date,
    SUM(mau) AS mau
FROM
    `moz-fx-data-derived-datasets.telemetry.firefox_desktop_exact_mau28_by_dimensions_v1`
WHERE
    country = 'US'
    AND campaign = 'whatsnew'
GROUP BY
    submission_date
ORDER BY
    submission_date
```

Perhaps we want to compare MAU as above to  [aDAU](/cookbooks/active_dau.html)
over the same slice. The column `visited_5_uri_dau` gives DAU as calculated
with the "Desktop 5 URI Active" usage criterion, corresponding to aDAU:

```
SELECT
    submission_date,
    SUM(mau) AS mau,
    SUM(visited_5_uri_dau) AS adau
FROM
    `moz-fx-data-derived-datasets.telemetry.firefox_desktop_exact_mau28_by_dimensions_v1`
WHERE
    country = 'US'
    AND campaign = 'whatsnew'
GROUP BY
    submission_date
ORDER BY
    submission_date
```

Additional usage criteria may be added in the future as new columns named

> `mau_*`, etc. where the suffix describes the usage criterion.

Reviewer: right now we are using the prefix to describe the criterion

Author: Yes, I intended to change this. Thanks for catching.

# Conceptual Model

## Metric

A metric is anything want to (and can) measure.  In order for a metric to be 
calculated, a _usage criterion_ and a _slice_ must be specified. The metric 
will produce a single value per day, summarizing data:

- for one day or more days (i.e. the metric value for a particular day may depend on data from other days as well)
- for all users (whatever notion of user makes sense for the data, generally profiles) in a particular sub-population
- where the sub-population will include users that meet the specified usage criteria and are in the specified slice.

A simple _usage criterion_ is "All Desktop Activity", which includes all Firefox Desktop users that we have any data (telemetry ping) for on the day in question.  The simplest slice is "All" which places no restrictions on the sub-population.

For example, the metric "Daily Active Users (DAU)" with usage criteria "All Desktop Activity" and slice "All" involves summarizing data on all users of Firefox Desktop over a single day.

## Usage Criteria

Active user counts must always be calculated in reference to some specific
_usage criterion_, a binary condition we use to determine whether a given

> user should be considered "active" in a given product or feature.

Reviewer: ❤️ this is much more clear, I really like it
